Welcome back to the deal. On today's
episode, Erica Ayes Badanchi's now the
CEO of Food 52. You knew her in her
previous job as CEO of Bartool Sports.
>> I did, and she's a master at turning
around companies. I cannot wait to hear
it, but she's a great leader, great
communicator, [music]
and she's on to new things.
>> Yeah, she has got massive ambitions.
She's also deep into the world of
lacrosse. She played in college, and now
she's on the board of the Premier
Lacrosse League with our buddy Paul
Rael. So, lots to talk to her about
coming up. Erica Ayers Badon.
All right, my man Erica Ayers Badon is
here with us. You guys are all buddies.
So, I got to I got to turn this over to
you. You got to lead this one.
>> This is strange. So, thank you, Jason.
So, Erica, we're so excited to have you.
Obviously, we we worked together a
little bit with Barto.
>> I saw you firsthand how wonderful you
led with the conviction and really how
much success they had under your
leadership and the growth was
incredible. Now you're at Food 52. It
feels like a big pivot. What is the the
through line for you?
>> Uh it's a great question. So thank you
for having me. Um I I sold Bar Stool
twice in 2023. So we sold it to Penn
National and then we bought it back for
Dave Portray for a dollar and
>> Oh, we're going to talk about that.
>> Yeah, sure. um come September 2023, I
was like there's I've done everything I
came to do here. Like I have any I
couldn't have dreamed that we would have
had two exits in a year that the company
would be back with Dave. I really felt
good about that because I felt like Dave
was always the right steward for Bartool
and I gave what I could give and the
gift of the machine while I was there.
And I felt that the greatest offense to
what I had done for the past almost a
decade would be to stay after I was
creating. And I I just felt like it was
offensive to everything I sacrificed to
build it that I wanted to go find a new
adventure and a place where I could
start and try to build something again.
And so that was really the pivot. I also
felt like I had marketed to 18 to 24
year old men for you know the better
part of a decade. And I was like, I know
I know how to do this. I I was finding
that I wasn't I wasn't crazy stimulated
by it. And I was writing a book at the
time and the last section of the book is
do you stay or do you go? And the point
where you go is when things stop scaring
you. And I felt that moving into the
women's space and moving into home and
lifestyle and manufacturing was
sufficiently scary. And so I made the
pivot. And
>> and I've never asked you this. How do
you get an opportunity like Barto? was a
head hunter call and say, "Erica, I have
a wild idea." How does that work?
>> No. So, it was actually funny. So, when
it was by it was very random. It was by
accident. So, I was in Los Angeles
and was ra I worked in music. I had a
startup in the music space trying to
build really fan platforms around music
artists. And we were raising money and
we went to go see the Chinan Group and I
walked into the meeting and the Cherinan
group were like, "Oh, hey, we just put
money to this company you've never heard
of." And I was like, "Well, what's the
company?" And they said, "Oh, it's
Barcel Schwarz." And I pulled up my
phone
>> and I was like, "I lived in Boston when
Dave started Barcel." I used to get, you
know, I'd be hung over on the tea and I
would read the paper and I have the app
and I'm like, "Here's everything that's
right with it. Here's everything that's
wrong with it."
>> And
and my business partner was pissed
because he was like, "We should be
focusing on raising money for us." But I
really couldn't shake that conversation.
And I felt very jealous because I knew
that they would probably find a white
guy with an MBA and a vest and a
button-down shirt and that was not me.
And I pursued that opportunity hard. I
tried to find anyone I could to get
connected to Dave. I finally got
connected to Dave probably 3 months
later. We met in a coffee shop in the
West Village and I pretty much was, you
know, working for Barcel since that
moment. But it didn't come through. It
was actually very interesting because
they had interviewed I think probably
70ish guys, 70 75 guys or men for the
job and you could tell the recruiter was
irritated by the time I showed up
because the recruiter had done his part,
you know, you was showing candidates,
showing candidates.
>> He's like, I've delivered all these bros
>> like [laughter] 100%. And this chick
walks in
>> and so that's that's how I got it.
>> Wow. Did you have any idea what you were
in for?
>> No. [clears throat]
No. You said something interesting a
minute ago that I love, which is the
gift of the machine. Was that what was
in your mind that that's what it needed
because it was what? It was less than $5
million, right?
>> Oh, it was it was less than $5 million.
It was probably 14 people. They were
based in Boston. Like it was, you know,
when I remember my first summer there,
there was no office. I worked in hotel
lobbies and coffee shops while we while
Dave and I built the office, opened the
office.
um we weren't sure who was on payroll.
>> So speaking of that, you go from under
15 people employees, you go from under
sub5 million in revenue.
>> Um you probably don't even have a P&L.
>> Um
>> barely. Yeah.
>> By the time you leave, you go from that
to about $250 million of topline
revenue. What were some of those
drivers? The main drivers?
>> Yeah. I mean I think the you know the
quote unquote machine was what we were
really good at is one is finding new
platforms at the time of emergence. So
podcasting was podcasting was just
starting to emerge around 2016, 2015, 14
to 16 and most of the big broadcasters
weren't in it deeply because there was
no money there and we had no money and
the cost of production for a podcast was
very low and so it was a there was a low
barrier of entry for us to make a lot of
podcasts. So we started to make a lot of
podcasts and then you know a year later
Facebook live and Twitter bought
Periscope and it was live streaming on
the internet. We got into that and
>> so the the machine quote unquote the
machine is really how do you find
emergent platforms? How do you find
programming that was authentic? I really
felt that there's something with young
men in particular that didn't want to be
preached preached at or told what you
know the the whole notion of sports
center was dying where you didn't you
weren't going to wait until 11:00 at
night to see what happened today. You
wanted the score and you wanted the
opinion in the same in the same
conversation in the same context. And
what we built was the ability to clip
that, post that, promote that, circulate
it and monetize it. Well, and you also
discovered this notion of creators at
the core, right? I mean, and I mean,
Portoy, and we'll talk a bit about him,
I'm sure, you know, at the at the center
of that, but you also said about finding
people, not just you found people and
married them to platforms. Is that a
fair? We found people and Dave is really
gifted at this is the Dave Gaz like the
core Barcel guys have very good eye for
talent and we were at a point where you
know it's kind of pre the capital I
influencer world that we live in now but
the alchemy of weirdos from you know
somebody's railing about New Jersey t
New Jersey transit and next thing you
know you have Frank the Tank and you're
putting Frank the Tank next to an Alex
Rodriguez or Dion Sanders and it's we
It's just weird. And so that was very
cap.
>> Alex is like confirmed.
>> Yes. [laughter]
>> Yes.
>> Um,
>> so we did a good job of discovering
talent and then we did a good job of
setting a social norm inside the company
of a high degree of productivity and a
high volume of output and we had a lot
of atbats. So because we had so many
atbats, it was easier for us to get a
hit.
>> So you had some at bats. I mean what was
your impression? I just thought first of
all I thought Erica was a great leader.
You you always come up with wild ideas
with her and she never said no that's
not going to work. She always try to
figure out like okay how do we think
outside the box? How do we get to a yes?
>> Let me think on that for a couple days
and she'll come back to you with really
productive feedback. But I mean I was
working with Dan who's very very
talented the cat right and uh he had an
enormous audience. it. The brand is so
big, Jason, that when I would go to
colleges to give talks or whatever or
even walking here in the cities of New
York,
>> the people would be like, "Barstto,
Barstow." I was like, "Holy smokes."
Like, not the Yankees, not this, not it
was Barto. So, I knew the power then
when I joined them.
>> And so, Erica, I want to go back to the
to the pen deal that you mentioned
because that sort of sits at the center
in terms of of the deal making that that
you guys did. So, how does that all go
down? So when I joined Bartool, the
investors felt that we should be able to
do I want to say $25 million in revenue
in four or five years. I think it was
five years.
>> We ended up doing $25 million of revenue
in like two and a half years. So we it
just we took off very very fast
>> and that's mostly ad like
>> ads ads and commerce. So and t-shirts,
right? Merchandise. Um, but we then
built a subscription business. We built
a pay-per-view business. We were able to
spin up businesses in a way that was
very fast because we were we were I
would say reckless but also highly
entrepreneurial. Um, but long story
short, we knew that there were two
outcomes. One was that a media company
would buy Barcel Sports. And then when
Paspa was repealed and gaming and
gambling looked like it would scale in
the US, that became very obvious that
that was going to be the path. And so
>> this was the Supreme Court decision that
basically allowed for
>> allowed for states to regulate sports
betting on a marketbymarket basis. And
prior to that, it was illegal across the
country.
I had always built the business to have
optionality for either path. And it's
kind of interesting like the Fox, you
know, Dave was on Fox in September and
then the the Good Morning Bar stool show
launch like that was actually probably
the right outcome for Bar Stool Sports
is to find a media home because the
company has intrinsic media DNA.
>> Penn came along. Penn needed a brand.
They had a large regional casino
footprint.
They had infrastructure and they had a
lot of licenses. They had all the state
licenses or most of the state licenses
at the time. And so in that regard, we
were a really, really good match versus
a DraftKings or a FanDuel or an MGM.
Those were companies we had worked for
before. Those were companies we had
supplied a lot of audience to. Um and
the way I built to that or we built to
that is you know in year one we had five
gambling partners and in year two we had
two gambling partners and in year three
we had one.
>> So I tried to create more and more
competition and a kingmaking of who our
partner was. Oh,
>> and then by the time Penn came along, we
had a very very good case study and a
very high volume of proof points of our
ability to transact and our ability to
drive customers for someone else. I
think a lot of times in acquisitions
what the acquiry forgets about is that
the acquirer wants customers and you are
a conduit to either acquiring, keeping
or upselling those customers and we were
very cognizant of that. Yeah, it seemed
and Jason and I were talking offline
like a dream and I remember at the time
what a brilliant idea. You have the
regional footprint with Vegas and you
have the bricks and mortar and you guys
have you know brand the gambling and
also pen wasn't cool. You guys made it
cool and you made it relevant.
>> Um when you trade on something like that
educate us a little bit. Is it more
topline? Is it a multiple of Ibida or
just you know how does that work?
>> So we were a multiple of IBIDA. Though
we were lucky in that we we had good
IBIDA in the business. Most of it we
reinvested for growth. We were also
looked at on a multiple because we had a
very healthy and growing ad business and
we were growing thousands of percents or
hundreds of percents on an annual basis
really on every dimension. So if it was
ad revenue, if it was audience growth,
if it's downloads on podcast, we were
trading we were trading up and
exponentially up year-over-year. Um, now
there was a discount because the brand
was controversial and there was the
like, well, what about what about bar
stool? What about what about? Um, so
there was a discount to that and the
partnership, you know, that in good ways
and bad ways, you know, we never Dave
and I never set foot in a pen casino
before we did the partnership.
And I I think we didn't know in some
ways what we didn't know going into it.
I think we brought a tremendous amount
of value to Penn. You saw it in the
stock price pop. You saw it in the
audience. You saw it in the
establishment of the brand. Ultimately
wasn't a fit.
>> When did you know it wasn't working?
>> It was hard. It just was really Yeah.
Like from the jump like it, you know,
and and to
in fairness to Penn, they had state and
government controlled licenses. It's
like if your business is predicated on a
government license, like you can't mess
that up. Like you just you just think
differently. You act differently.
>> So that was really hard for us because
we were more successful and most
fulfilled the mo most audience we were
getting. The more audience we got, the
more eyeballs we got, the more people
talked about bar stool, the more people
looked at us or talked about us, the
better off we were. Pen was like, "Could
you guys just be quiet? [laughter]
>> We will stop talking to you." which was
so antithetical to how the company was
built. The second piece of it was Penn
is a was really a cash driven business,
right? So they collected,
>> you know, they were collecting coins in
casinos, right? And when you collect the
cash every night and you count it, you
have a high degree of predictability and
you have a high degree of certainty
around what your revenue is on a
day-to-day basis. in the media business
as you all know like it doesn't work
that way. So I felt personally I was
spending a lot of time of predicting
what the revenue one month from now was
going to look like on any given
Wednesday and it just was like
>> it just was two really different beasts.
>> If if you have a mulligan and in
hindsight
pen never happened.
>> Yeah.
>> Knowing what you know now
going back what would be the ideal maybe
one or two companies that would be the
ideal buyer?
>> Yeah. I think, you know, I'm so grateful
that Penn did happen. It changed, you
know, it changed everyone's life. It
freed Barcel up to go back to being
privately owned. Um, it gave, you know,
a huge reward to the investor. Like, it
it was a win for, you know, most
everyone in that equation.
>> I think Fox is probably the right home
for Bartool. Like, always was the right
one to be honest with you. There was a
hot minute we thought it was ESPN.
Obviously, that wasn't going to be ESPN
after we had, you know, our 1 a.m.
disastrous one episode TV show. But, um,
I think Fox was right. I think
DraftKings or FanDuel would have been
probably a better fit with similar
challenges to Penn, but I really do
think from a media perspective, it would
have been Fox.
>> Yeah. And so, you know, you mentioned
this a minute ago, the notion of being
out there, the notion of being loud,
even the notion of controversy to some
extent was a feature, not a bug when it
came when it came to Bartool. That must
have presented challenges for you as
definitely a CEO. How do you deal with
that as a manager? you get very thick
skin and you know bar stool there was
just it was we were not in crisis but we
created crisis for other people in our
business dealings which was challenging
that was tiring
>> it was trial by fire which was a really
good business experience like not much
phases me in business at this point
because we had so much happen [laughter]
you know varsel years are like dog years
so it's there was a lot that that
happened in that but it was also So
media is a really interesting business
>> and I mean to take it to the obvious
point like there's controversy and then
there's like Dave Portoy controversy you
know and [clears throat] obviously he's
>> like next level
>> right he's been accused of things that
he's denied you know like how do you
take that on as a CEO
>> every day everyone at Bartool starts
with a blank page and the camera is on
24/7 and most anyone where the camera is
on 24/7 and your job is to make people
laugh out of a blank page every day. You
are going to step in it. Like that is a
byproduct of the business. Like so the
first is just the acknowledgment of this
is the world we play in and this is the
the business we chose and and the cause
that we adopted. I think on the Dave
piece of it like I really loved working
with Dave. Dave is br truly brilliant.
He's a brilliant business person. He has
incredible instinct. He is very
decisive. He also is confident enough to
know what he doesn't know. And I worked
for him, you know, with him for almost a
decade. And I trusted him. Like I I
truly and, you know, I truly trusted him
on every level. And when things got
tough and stuff was, you know, thrown at
him, we talked a lot about it, you know,
and it's intimate and it's personal and
it's just, you know, things people don't
necessarily want to know about one
another. Um, but I also felt like he was
super forthright with me and I think he
also is super forthright with his
audience and there's people who like
that and there's people who don't like
that and but I also I felt like I had
really partnered with a quality person
who that I was going to ride or die with
in that. And so, you know, one of the
things that that I think we're both
fascinated by is and I've been listening
to your podcast work, uh, which is
really good in part because, you know,
when you walked in, I felt like I knew
you because it is a very authentic, it
feels like representation of yourself.
>> Is that just how you've always been or
is an experience is your professional
experience has it made you that way that
you are transparent and open and like
very comfortable with real talk? Oh, no.
I think I think I've always been like
that. I mean, I grew up in a locker
room, so it's, you know,
>> I think you're just like that. Yeah.
When you're in a locker room, and I love
to work.
>> So, a locker room, Alex, is where like
athletes got them. [laughter]
>> Thank you. Thank you.
>> Really? Oh, he's like, I had my own.
>> [laughter]
>> Um, I think I've always been very
curious and I've always had a lot of
energy and I think bar stool made me
more public than I would have ever been.
I would not have gotten to this place on
my own, I don't think. But
>> I do feel that there is really a lack of
management talent. There's a lack of
authenticity. There's a lack of care for
for younger people at work and passion
around being great at work. I think
COVID kind of killed the manage
management. It really it killed
management. Like you stopped getting
feedback. You stopped meeting with
people one-on-one. You stopped learning
in the hallways. And you know, I really
believe that work is an apprenticeship.
Anything I learned is because I
apprenticed under great people. And to
have a concept where I can talk about
work, share work, laugh at work,
ridicule, and push people and confront
things at work, I think is healthy.
>> So Erica, you know, Jason and I were
talking a little bit a couple weeks ago
about managing talent and uh you've had
some tremendous talent come through
bars. I mean, from Deion Sanders to Alex
Cooper,
>> Pat McAfee, and and obviously Dan Cat.
If you had a doover, is there anyone
that you wish you could have kept if you
thought a little bit more proactively or
is this the nature of doing business and
people just have to move on in the next?
>> It's so funny because
I think Dave and I always used to talk
about it like an athlete contract,
right? Where you get a rookie and the
rookie contract might not be great.
Maybe it is great in a in rare air and a
few exceptions, but you you start you
get your first contract or your first
gig if you're a regular person and it's
all about how you perform in that first
term. And we were very good about
ripping contracts up and creating new
ones and you saw that progression with
Alex Cooper in particular because that
was very public. But I don't know that
there's anyone who got away. There were
a lot of talent I'm glad we missed on to
be honest with you. like I'm more
grateful for the people we passed on.
>> I also think, you know, it's it's funny.
I deal with this now at work. When a
talent leaves, there's a feeling,
>> I think, of failure of like, oh, they
got away or we shouldn't let them go.
But it's really like, hey, they just
graduated to something bigger and this
place
>> we were very comfortable with bar stool
being a springboard to go do other
things. I think the world has changed
where when you're out on your own in the
cold versus you're in a stable where
there's constant promotion and cross
promotion and instigation is very hard
to make it.
>> That's very much like sports. I mean
contracts are up they get expensive. The
other part that you guys did really well
is you had a great farm system and you
had great scouting whether that came
from you and
>> Dave and there's always a new crop.
There's always a new crop.
>> And so how do you translate that?
Because as as I understand and I I want
you to you know bring us and and our
audience up to speed on what you're
doing at food 52 because clearly talent
also at the talent and content are are
clearly at the center of that. So what
are the lessons you take? How do you
approach that talent? It's food talent
essentially rather than sports. So
what's the playbook there?
>> Talent is succession, right? So, it's
how do you think about who's at the top
of their game now and how do you feed
the next generation of that? And that
could be if you're an accountant or an
FPNA guy or you're a media person or you
work in advertising or you work in
manufacturing, whatever. It doesn't
matter. You work in content. I really
think about it that you've got to give
talent every possible piece of
ammunition you have. You have to offer
something to them in the power of the
parent brand. I think a lot of times,
you know, you read about this with
Unwell and the Alex Earl versus the Alex
Cooper of it all is like what is Unwell
offering to other talent outside of Alex
Cooper in Unwell? Like that's a big
question. What's the value proposition?
Why is someone part of this network
versus another network? I think media
people and media networks miss that. But
so long as you give talent freedom, you
have their back when they mess up.
Because if you're in the public eye and
you're making content on a daily basis,
you're going to mess up. And then three
is the money shows up. You can have then
you can play.
>> Yeah.
>> Um but you always need to be thinking
about who's the future, you know, who's
the next generation. How do you start?
Competition is so healthy. I mean, you
see this in sports like competition,
whether you're in a test kitchen at Food
52 or you're a fellowship of creators in
my world at home and life and food or
you're part of Barcel is a great thing.
>> So, you mentioned that you ran into the
Barto opportunity by raising capital
>> and then it shifted to something else.
So, I'm going to do a little role play
with you. Yeah.
>> My friend Jason here, he's a CIO. He's
runs a family office and uh he has a lot
of cash.
>> Okay. and he's looking to invest. Can
you give him a pitch on why he should
invest and what exactly is Food 52?
>> Oh, absolutely. So,
Food 52 started around the same time as
Glossier and the whole era of the blog
turns into a little shop and the shop
turns into a product and the product
turns into a movement, right? And food
52 did this I in the subject of table
and home and food really food as the
center of a well-lived life. What then
happened is Food552 started curating
incredible products from all sorts of
artisans all around the world and had a
very particular aesthetic and a very
elevated aesthetic but also for the
first time had a real vision for home
cooks versus chefs or restaurant tours
or professionals. It was really about
serving the athome cook. Um food media
has exploded since that time.
And what I really believe is that
there's a couple things that make Food
52 worthy of investments. If you want to
give me money, I'll take it. [laughter]
Um,
>> he's got a lot of it.
>> That's great. I love that.
>> Clearly.
>> Um, but essentially, when you think
about home and you think about food and
you think about table or decor or
lighting or textiles or furniture, it
doesn't matter. The internet eats the
middleman, right? And so you're going to
have the Amazon of the world and or
maybe a Target of the world and you'd
have a Kraton barrel or a Pottery Barn
and then you're going to have things
that are very boutique and bespoke.
And the pieces in the middle aren't
really going to exist. And what I think
is very interesting about Food 52 is
that if you create a content engine that
surfaces artisans and makers and
interior designers and stylists and
fashionable women and you service and
put products underneath that, you can
create a whole ecosystem that's that has
a lot of cache that has a lot of
differentiation that has a lot of
aspiration and a lot of appeal. And you
can do so in a way that you're not
dependent on Facebook and you're not
dependent on Google that you're creating
an ongoing conversation with people. So
like I'll give you an example. I created
this thing called work like a girl. I
was at Bartool. Everyone is accusing
Barl of being misogynistic. So I was
like you know what like that I'm going
to make t-shirts that say work like a
girl. And that became my brand. And then
last summer I was like you know what I'm
going to create this into a Slack group.
We now have thousands of women who are
giving each other advice all day long
about getting a job, managing in your
job, finding a new job, HR questions,
management questions, AI questions, you
name it. It's a hive. And you can
surface all sorts of products into that
because we're in an ongoing
conversation.
That's professional women. You could see
the same thing with stay-at-home moms.
You could see the same thing with
interior designers. and the ability to
put products into those environments in
a way that's organic I think will
ultimately win in terms of conversion
>> and then how do you make money
>> by selling those products and having
really multiple lines of revenue. So if
you look at you know we are just about
to launch with Porsche. So Porsche wants
to be associated with our audience. We
also are featuring artisal products that
we hand you know hand collect or curate.
We also manufacture and develop lighting
and textiles and furniture which so
there's three lines of business in one
Instagram story and that to me is an
interesting business which is not that
dissimilar from the bar stool business
>> and so how do you level food 52 up? I
mean because when you came in I mean you
you were coming in at least
>> that's a turnaround
>> bas based on listening to your podcast
it's a turnaround
>> big time. Um, are you attracted to
turnaround? Like what what what was it
about?
>> I don't know. Now that I'm in the middle
of one, I'm like I'm not sure I'm going
to do this again. But um I liked the
challenge of serving
25 to 54 women. I was like, that's an
interesting demographic. They they have
a lot of pull. They're under they're
underpenetrated in a way. They're
underserved.
Um, so I liked that it's not a viral
crowd in the way that an 18 to 34 man is
a viral crowd. Interesting. So, so how
you build for them is very different. I
thought that was intellectually very
interesting. A
>> lot of spending power.
>> Huge amount of spending power. Huge
amount of influence and huge amount of
influence on other people. You look at
youth sports, it's the moms. You look at
what's happening at the home, it's the
moms. You look at a family's finances,
it's typically the mom. And then the
second piece on the turnaround of it
all, I'm curious to learn like if you
look, you know, I've been here a year. I
know more about manufacturing. I know
more about international shipping. I
know more about product development.
I know more about e-commerce than I knew
coming in just by a factor of a
thousand. And so regard if I can make
this thing turn around and you know,
I've taken a huge amount of cost out of
the company. I've restructured the
company. I've refocused the company.
I've rehired the majority of the
company. I've totally changed the DNA.
It may work or it may not. I think it
will work. But now I know media, I know
men, I know women, and I know
manufacturing. And it's it's so I feel
that I'm more viable because of it
because I've been able to now study
different types of business, different
consumers and different business models.
>> So Erica, you made made the analogy
about sports. You go from running this
company Barto again sub 5 million to
north of 250 in revenue in like 8 years
or so.
>> You're basically the top free agent in
the market. How does that this
opportunity come? because I would
imagine that you would have many
companies, many head hunters after you.
How do you land a
>> Yeah, it's um I think everyone thought I
would stay in sports and I think
everyone thought I would stay in
gambling in particular and I got a lot
of calls. Um, but what I I was a little
bit scarred leaving Bartool from the big
company of it all where I was like, I
don't I don't know. I don't know that
I'm going to Disney or I don't know that
I'm going to be a cog in a really big
machine. I also didn't want to compete
against Bartool because I still have
like so much of I'm a bar stool girl.
So, I'm like I still have so much
affection for that brand and the
business. And I also felt, you know,
like life is short and I want to try
something completely different. The
investor behind Food 52 is the same
investor as Barcelon.
Yes. So that made it also easy. I had
joined the board of Food 52 in 2023.
>> So I also got a look firsthand at what
it looked like before I got in there,
which I I like. You know, I sit on the
board of Vice. I'm on the board of Axon.
I sit on the board of the PLL. So, it's
great to see companies. It kind of gives
you a sense of where the opportunity and
where the challenge is. And I felt that
there was a a lot of upside if I could
if I could turn this around. And I
hadn't done a turnaround in the way that
this company needs a turnaround. And
that was a good that was a good thing
that would scare me. So, as someone
who's been on the on the buy side and
and the sell side throughout your
career, like what are the sorts of deals
that you're looking I mean, do you grow
through acquisition here? Are you acqu
and and are those content acquisitions?
Are they talent? Like what what commerce
like where are you looking?
>> Yes, Food 52 will grow organically. Food
52 made two acquisitions before I got
there. We they acquired a brand called
dance and they acquired a company called
Schoolhouse. the company there during co
>> the synergies between the brands hadn't
been recognized. So I'm more of a try to
grow organically
um
>> that that's how I've seen things. Now,
if you look at the PLL or you look at
Vice, those Vice is a company that's
finding its way through JV partnerships,
right? And PLL in a large large part is
growing organically, but also the
Premier Lacrosse League. Sorry, the
Premier Lacrosse League.
>> They're also growing through
acquisition. Axon grows through
acquisition. So I'm more of a grow
organic, drive, build a vision, you
know, see a vision, build a vision,
execute against a vision, have multiple
lines of revenue, do so on a lowcost
basis, and then diversify. Um, that's
more my approach.
I do think acquisition can be an
incredible accelerant.
>> Um, I think JVS are tough.
>> Yeah. And so, you know, interestingly,
you know, the proverbial seat you're
sitting in, Melody Hopson sat in there a
bit ago, and she put on what I thought,
Alex, was a masterclass in being a board
member. What are you like as a board
member? Like what what do you what do
you feel like you bring to the party?
What's the what's your sort of And
obviously it varies board to board, but
like what are you looking to get out of
that and what are you looking to give?
>> I don't probably not as good of a board
member as Melanie Hopson. I think she's
probably the best board member like the
history of boards, but like so that's a
good thing to aspire to. We all aspire
to that.
>> I'm not I ask a thousand questions. I'm
very curious. I like management. I am
not a I'm not a pomp and circumstance
board member. Like I appreciate public
boards and private company boards
obviously super different but
>> I'm more interested in how can you
represent the needs and and and wants
and also the protecting the shareholders
but also how do you help the company see
something that they have but they can't
see from within and so I'm a high I
guess I'm a high energy board member I'm
very passionate I have a lot of opinions
I think a lot of times in a board in
board sessions people get very pissy and
they get very quiet and
>> right
>> I think you know hard part I always say
this just as an operator and I have
boards is there's nothing worse than the
board member who does nothing for you
and says nothing during the meeting.
[laughter] I hate those people. So I'm
like I never want to be one of those
people. So I try to be the opposite of
that.
>> All right. So, now's the time that we
get to talk about one of my favorite
subjects, lacrosse. Um, in your
proverbial seat, Paul Rabelat. Uh, he's
a friend of all of ours. Uh, you played
lacrosse at Kobe College very
successfully. Uh, you obviously love the
game. How do you link up with Paul and
Mike Rabbel, his brother, who, you know,
created the the PLL. They have grown as
you as you mentioned through
acquisition. How does that come about
and and and what's your relationship to
the business of lacrosse? Um, so Paul
and Mike Rael showed up at Barcel Sports
in 2016. Whoa. And we had two conference
rooms and you know at that point
probably a hundred guys in like dirty
sweats and the conference room table
didn't hold up where if you put your
elbow on it, it just fell off. Like it
everything was in the constant state of
falling apart at Barsel. And they showed
up because
>> that's a metaphor.
>> Yes. [laughter]
Um, so they showed up and Paul was
playing for the MLLL, which was a
competitive league at the time, and I
believe he had a large sponsorship with
Warrior Lacrosse, which was owned by New
Balance,
>> and they were looking for advice on how
they could get out of that, how could
they how how could this thing be created
called the PLL?
>> Wow. and they showed up and we were
supposed to meet for a half hour. We
ended up meeting for like two and a half
hours and I've been connected to them
ever since.
>> So what were you were you thinking all
right this is a viable option this isn't
a vi like did you think they could
create a whole new league? Definitely
because that summer they they when they
came to see me, we had just written
>> Jordy, one of the bar stool guys, had
just written a blog on the conditions of
the MLL players, which were pretty
embarrassing, you know, like it was one
pizza to be shared across 30 guys. They
were making like negative 50 bucks every
day.
>> They were literally like going home with
fans and like sleeping on their couches.
It was awful. It was awful. And Paul was
the first million-dollar player, right?
>> And he had this big lucrative contract,
but the big lucrative contract was tied
to the league. And so I thought it was
an interesting problem to solve, which
is he had a bird in hand, which was a
big sponsorship, the first time anyone
in that sport had been recognized at
that financial level, and he wanted to
give it up to start something new. And I
thought it was very brave. I I thought
it was ballsy. And I also felt that, you
know, we were getting Barcel was getting
really a firsthand look at sports
because we were doing so much, you know,
this was early days for Bar, you know,
not early early Barcel, but early in my
time at Barcel. And we were seeing,
>> you know, hockeyy's kind of lagging.
Hockey is a very insular media culture
around it. Football was starting to
rage, not the way it is now, but in a
way that was was big. Baseball was, you
know, a little sleepy. And I really felt
that when I looked at the energy, you
know, you're a great example of this.
The amount of money, time, and effort
people will spend on their kids lacrosse
is bananas.
>> Yes. Bonkers.
>> Bananas. So, I'm like, there's an
opportunity there.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And they've been chasing it.
>> I mean, it is amazing. And we've talked
about this in in the context of
lacrosse. I mean, it really is like
A-Rod being like, you know what? I think
there's a better baseball league that I
can you just be like this Major League
Baseball. Crazy to think about
>> banana savannah is what I mean bananas.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Really cool. Um
>> but you had a lot of those ideas. I mean
that baseball should I mean when we were
working together baseball should be more
entertaining. You've got to coingle the
entertainment and the game. Like it's
>> and they've done that.
>> They have they've done it like they
have. And we talked about youth sports a
lot on this podcast and
>> it's a $40 billion opportunity and it's
so fragmented
>> and I always go to like how do we also
make sure that like my mom who couldn't
afford you know big ticket items. How do
we grow the sport but also make it
affordable for
>> 100%. I think that's going to be the
rub.
>> We we have to make it because we don't
want to lose great players to other
sport because they can't afford it.
That's just not good enough. And so how
do you grow grow again asking for a
friend how do you grow lacrosse
>> I think you have to go to the youth
>> you need more kids preferring lacrosse
lacrosse is low barrier of entry sport
>> you know if you look at street lacrosse
and Harlem like perfect example like
it's not if you can pick up a basketball
you can pick up a lacrosse stick and
ball like it shouldn't be cost
>> pro there's also been an expansion into
you know there's now the WL the the
women's league uh I would imagine as a
former um
>> I'm passionate about the women's league
and the women's lacrosse. The the
coolest thing about the WLL
>> is they will be bigger stars than the
men.
>> Really? Why?
>> Yes.
>> Because they they get it. They want it.
They are captivating on camera. They
>> Charlotte North and what she does for
young girls playing lacrosse is epic.
And they're also new. And I, you know,
this is my thing for which I've been
saying to Paul and Mike forever. This is
what I'm like on the board is like you,
who is your Dennis Rodman?
>> Yeah.
>> Like who's the jerk? Who's creating
controversy? It's the same conversation
with WNBA. Like the more players showing
color off the court.
>> Yeah.
>> In a way that's real and relatable and
impassioned, the better off the sport's
going to be. Well, I mean to the point
of they get it. I mean, you've seen this
through the links. You know, we've seen
it in college sports especially. You
think about women's college basketball
and the stars that you know, not just
Caitlyn, but Paige Beckers when she was
at Yukon, Watkins at USC. I mean, these
are stars in part because they have
cultivated that in a much more
methodical and serious way.
>> That's a job.
>> Right. Right. They they just see the
they see the potential there. 100%.
>> Now, going back to Food 52, I'm I'm
curious, where do you see this in the
next 3 to 5 years? In a perfect world,
cuz we talked about
>> Bar totally. I think in a perfect world,
Food 52 finds a home inside of a bigger
company and it brings the engine to
bear.
>> Yeah.
>> And that may be something that should
happen in seven years and, you know, or
it happens in three years or, you know,
but I think it should be part of
something bigger. And potentially, not
to give any secrets away, but what type
of company you think
>> could be a retail company that's looking
for product differentiation or is
looking for category expansion or is
looking for a new customer set. Or you
could see, you know, more and more media
companies are looking for food and home
and life content. And so they're also
looking for diverse lines of revenue.
and they're looking to expand e-commerce
beyond affiliate. So, I kind of see
those two paths as as opportunities for
this company.
>> So, I have no doubt you're going to
crush it in the next three, five, seven
years with Food 52. I always wonder
this. You're very young, yet you have a
lot of experience. Is there a dream job
out there five, seven years from now
that that that's out there that you kind
of think about a little bit, but you
haven't leaned into it yet? Is there one
job? Oh, I think I'm gonna be like a
college professor.
>> Oh, really?
>> Yep. I think I would teach business or I
teach marketing. I'm passionate about
work like a girl. I could see doing work
like a girl for a long time. I think,
>> you know, I was in the Middle East last
winter for a sport conference and it was
fascinating to me. It was all men. It
was very well done. And I'm like, God,
if you could just create a conference
for women
>> around culture and home and lifestyle,
>> I'm interest that's a business I would
build after this for sure.
>> Um, so I'm interested in that.
>> So, one of the things that strikes me as
as we start to wrap up and we've got
rapid fire questions coming at you in a
second, but this notion that it feels
like your brand, again, listening to
your podcast, even listening to this
conversation, like you're about real
talk. I mean, the the title of your
book, I want to make sure I get this
right. Nobody cares about your career,
why failure is good, the great winds
play hurt, and other hard truths. Like,
this is who you are. Give us some hard
truths that that you've learned.
>> Wow. I mean, failure, it's it's all
failure. The better you can be failing
is the better you'll be winning.
>> You struck out a bunch of times.
>> It was so funny. 100%. Like, I'm fit all
time in the history of strikeouts,
right?
>> Yeah.
>> Um, it's cool that Reggie Jackson, my
buddy's number one. [laughter] But
there's four people in the history of
mankind that have struck out more.
>> And I think that one of my small
competitive advantages in business is
that baseball is a game of failure. And
if you fail 70% of the time,
>> you end up in Coopertown in the Hall of
Fame.
>> So the ability to get up to bat with
optimism after so much failure, I think
is a real gift.
>> Yeah. I I wish people would put
themselves out there more and and
younger. If you look at the percentages
in baseball, they're pathetic. I mean,
>> it's so infantismally small.
>> And the reality is you're a one of the
greatest successes of all time. And I I
really think the same thing is true.
It's the reps. It's you got to put
yourself out there. You have to try. You
have to take initiative. I think people
are failing to be generous and generous
in their questions, generous in their
thinking, generous in their effort. And
the more generous you can be with
yourself in putting yourself into
whatever it is you're doing, and the
more chances you take, one of them is
going to hit.
>> Yeah. All right, we're going to go the
rapid fire.
>> Okay.
>> All right. So, 10 questions. We're going
to bounce them back and forth. So just
like first thing that comes to your mind
one word to describe your deal making
style
>> fast.
>> What's more important your data or your
gut?
>> Gut.
>> Who's your dream deal making partner?
>> In what way? Like in
>> however you take it.
>> Who's my dream deal? I mean Dave Portoy.
>> There you go. What's the best piece of
advice you received on deal making or
business?
>> That no is the second best answer to
yes.
What's the worst advice you've been
given?
>> Hang in there.
>> What's your hype song before you go into
a big meeting or negotiation?
>> Ooh, this is an excellent one. I have
two. One is I'm coming out by Diana Ross
and two is The Velt by Dead Mouse.
>> Wow. You can only watch one sport for
the rest of your life. Which one is it?
>> Tennis.
>> What team do you want to see win a
championship more than any? Actually, if
you're a tennis fan, you could say a
person, team or person.
>> I mean, Carlos. Love Carlos.
>> Carlos Algaras.
>> Yeah, Caritos.
>> I mean, he's won a lot, but
>> yeah, we love Caritos.
>> He's so great.
>> You're obviously now running a food
company. If you had your last meal, what
would that meal be?
>> Oh, that'd be like New Haven pizza and
blueberries.
>> Oh, I got to try that.
>> All right, Erica. Really, really good to
spend some time with you. Thank you.
>> That was fun. Thank you. [music]
>> [music]
[music]